# Building Views
A Django View is just a Python function that receives a web request and returns a web response. All the logic to return the desired response goes inside the view (inside the `blog/views.py`).

First, I will create two application views, then I will define a URL pattern for each view, and finally, I will create HTML templates to render the data generated by the views. Each view will render a template, passing variables to it, and will return an HTTP response with the rendered output.

## Creating View 1
Let's start by creating a view to display the list of posts. For creating such view, we add the following code to the `blog/views.py` file:

```
from django.shortcuts import render
from .models import Post

def post_list(request):
    posts = Post.published.all()
    return render(
        request,
        'blog/post/list.html',
        {'posts': posts}
    )

```
Note that a view is declared like a normal Python function. This very first view takes only one parameter: `request`. This parameter is actually required in all views. 

Inside the function, we use our custom `published` manager to retrieve all posts with the `PUBLISHED` status. 

Finally, we use the `render()` shortcut provided by Django to render the list of posts with the `blog/post/list.html` template. The function takes the `request` object, the path to the HTML template, and the context variables to render the given template. The `render()` function returns an `HttpResponse` object with the rendered text (normally HTML code).

## Creating View 2
We now add another function called `post_detail`, to display a single post, instead of a list:

```
from django.http import Http404

def post_detail(request, id):
    try:
        post = Post.published.get(id=id)
    except Post.DoesNotExist:
        raise Http404("No Post found.")
    return render(
        request,
        'blog/post/detail.html',
        {'post': post}
    )
```
In the view we try to retrieve the `Post` object which `id` field matches the input `id` by using the `get()` method on the `published` manager. We raise a `Http404` if such post does not exist. Otherwise, we use the `render()` shortcut to render the retrieved post using the `blog/post/detail.html` template.

Note the above can be written in another form:
```
from django.shortcuts import get_object_or_404, render

def post_detail(request, id):
    post = get_object_or_404(
        Post,
        id=id,
        status=Post.Status.PUBLISHED
    )
    return render(
        request,
        'blog/post/detail.html',
        {'post': post}
    )
```

## Adding URL patterns for the views
URL patterns allow us to map URLs to views. A URL pattern is composed of a string pattern, a view, and optionally, a name that allows you to name the URL project-wide. Django runs through each URL pattern and stops at the first one that matches the requested URL. Then Django imports the view of the matching URL pattern and executes it, passing an instance of the `HttpRequest` class and the keyword or positional arguments.

To create URL patterns, we create a `urls.py` file in the `blog/` directory and add the following lines to it:

```
from django.urls import path
from . import views

app_name = 'blog'

urlpatterns = [
    # post views
    path('', views.post_list, name='post_list'),
    path('<int:id>/', views.post_detail, name='post_detail'),
]
```
In the preceding code:
- we define an application namespace with the `app-name` variable. This allows us to organise URLs by application and use the name when referring to them. 
- using the `path` function we define two different URL patterns. The first URL pattern does not take any arguments and is mapped to the `views.post_list` view. The second pattern takes only one argument `id` (which matches an integer) and is mapped to the `views.post_detail` view.
- Note how angle brackets are used to capture the values from the URL. Any value specified in the URL pattern as 
`<parameter>` is captured as a string. You use path converters, such as `<int:year>`, to specifically match 
and return an integer.

We have created the URL patterns inside the `blog/` application, but now we need to know the Django project about their existence. To do that, you can create another `urls.py` file under `mysite/` with the following code:

```
from django.contrib import admin
from django.urls import include, path

urlpatterns = [
    path('admin/', admin.site.urls),
    path('blog/', include('blog.urls', namespace='blog')),
]
```
Note how we use the `include` method to include the URL patterns defined in the blog application. We include these patterns under the namespace `blog`.